it's hard enough to speak in front of a
group of people and deliver a
presentation but what makes it even more
challenging is when you look out into
the audience and everyone is looking
down at their phones in this video I'm
going to give you a couple of tips and
strategies and ways that you can
hopefully keep your audience off of
their phone and engaged with what you
have to say my first tip is that if you
look out into the crowd and there are
many people looking on their phones
don't get thrown off off I consider
myself a very confident and somewhat
polished public speaker and yes there
are many times in fact probably every
time I speak to an audience where some
people when I look around are on their
phones and of course it's a goal of mine
to have everyone off their phone and
engaging and making eye contact with me
but let's face it it's just a reality of
the world we live in people are
conditioned to be checking their phones
on a regular basis and the other thing
is that it might not even be a bad thing
sometimes people are on their phones
taking notes about what you're saying so
just because somebody's looking down it
doesn't mean that they're not still
engaged in what you are saying now that
you're not thrown off by people being on
their phones the next tip in order to
get fewer people looking at their phones
is to incorporate vocal tone and variety
as well as body language if you are
interesting on stage you're making
movements purpose movements you're
increasing your voice and you're
bringing down your voice at strategic
times that is interesting if an audience
member is sat there and they hear these
changes or they look up and they see you
running around the stage or being
Dynamic when it makes sense to do so
that is interesting they are likely to
be attracted to the most interesting
thing but if you are not doing any of
those things you're stood behind a
Podium you're reading off of notes in a
monotone voice guess guess what their
phone probably is a little bit more
interesting so it's important for you to
incorporate vocal variety as well as
body language to keep your audience's
attention and break away from the norm
the third tip and this one's so huge
Friends of the channel you've heard me
say this many times before that is to
incorporate humor early the earlier you
can get your audience to laugh within
your speech the quicker they are going
to decide that you are an interesting
and entertaining person and that they
probably want to pay attention for the
rest of the speech and it's going to
relax them but also it's going to relax
you because I can tell you it's one of
the greatest things when you're on stage
and you hear laughter from the audience
it's this little shot of adrenaline and
encouragement and confidence and it will
give you the strength to keep going with
even more confidence throughout the rest
of your speech some of my favorite
speakers not only add in the humor early
but they sprinkle it periodically almost
strategically throughout their speech
every 1 to two minutes they'll have
something that they say that again gets
the audience to chuckle and the more
times you're able to incorporate humor
the audience is going to stay engaged
because they don't want to miss the next
funny thing that you say or expression
you have on your face so humor is such
an important tool to use when speaking
the fourth tip to keeping your audience
off of their phones is to spread eye
cont attacked throughout the room that's
difficult sometimes it's not easy to
look people in the eye or look directly
where their eyes are if they're looking
down at their phone but by continuing to
do that when those people look up from
their phone and catch eye contact with
you there's almost this level of
accountability that's in place where
they know uhoh the speaker's watching me
they made eye contact with me it makes
them more reluctant to go on their
phones and they will focus on what
you're saying and again if they don't
don't let that throw you off that's fine
but by purposefully looking around the
room and catching eye contact with
people you're going to find they're
going to be less likely to be distracted
and more likely to be engaged with what
you're saying my final tip for keeping
your audience off of their phones is to
actually not do that do the opposite
encourage them to be on their phones and
do so in an interactive way so there's
various apps out there and web sites one
that I've used in the past is called
mentimeter and this allows your audience
to answer poll questions or submit
questions that they have for you or
basically interact in some way you can
even do things like quizzes in real time
from their device and if you are
encouraging them to participate on their
device even though their heads are down
and they're looking at their phone at
least you know it's because it has to do
with your presentation you are keeping
them engaged that way and some of the
best presentations I've seen are ones
that encourage that interactivity from
the audience interactivity is that the
right word interactiveness whatever the
word is they keep the audience engaged
by utilizing the devices and ensuring
they're tapped in to whatever the
speaker is talking about so if you find
that you can't get your audience off
their phones let them be on their phones
but direct what they're doing on their
phones to stay engaged with your speech
I hope these these five tips on how to
keep your audience off their phones keep
them engaged in what you're saying have
been helpful and if you enjoyed the
video consider subscribing to my channel
it is my goal to create great video
content that helps make you a better
public speaker and a more impactful
communicator